---
layout: post
title: "ISC2 CC Domain 1"
date: 2025-08-28
---

ISC2 Certification in Cybersecurity (CC)

The notes are missing some contents because of adapted learning format of the program, the more accurately practice questions are answered, the lessons will progress further.

The following are summaries of the lessons:

Domain 1: Security Principles

CIA Triad

Confidentiality- permit authorized access
Integrity- ensures accuracy
Accessibility - systems are available

Privacy vs Security
Example opening a bank account. 
Privacy is when the customer opt out of bank sharing their information to marketers.
Security is the bank protecting your money and account.

When customer agreed to the bank's sharing of their info to marketers, privacy is gone.
When bank has been hit by a breach, the customers' privacy might be used by cybercriminals for ID theft and other fraud.
Their privacy and security of their account's security were compromised.

GPDR- example of EU law, privacy is a human right

Risk management
Low probability, low impact
Low probability high impact
High probability, low impact
High probability, high impact

Security controls- implemented in risk management to mitigate risks to acceptable level.

Threats & vulnerabilities
e.g.: Tourist (Appearing to be vulnerable) vs. pickpocket (threat actor)
Approach of pickpocket(threat vector)

Risk in our lives
e.g.: Fraud against credit card vs. MFA
Insurance: Fraud insurance, ID theft insurance
Calculating risks vs. premiums against potential payouts

Protecting information
PII-needs to be protected
Personally identifiable information- when combined with other information narrows possibility of associating individuals.

Making connections
e.g.: sharing passwords
P1 shared password to P2. P2 got fired on different issue and gets angry to the company.
P2 logged in as P1 and disrupted work.

e.g.: When remote worker's workstation left unlocked, unattended, threat actor might use unauthorized software/malware.

Theoretical example:
-Code of Ethics
-Infosec professionals must act honorably, honestly, responsibly and legally.

e.g.: Retinal scanner was used to discriminate against a female candidate and given to hiring officers.
P1-security manager, P2 - informed P1 about unacceptable use of P3 of workstation.
P2- not in charge of monitoring P3, or anyone, has IT permissions. P3 won't say how they knew P2's unacceptable use of workstation.
P3- after review, used workstation, but not illegal.

P1- investigated, P1 and P2 had a conflict. P2 violated code of ethics much more greater than P3.

Confidentiality
Authentication- proves identity
something you know -passwords
something you are- biometrics
something you have- key cards

ISC2 Code of Conduct:
-adhere to conditions
-protect society
-act honorably, justly, legally, responsibly
-provide diligent and competent service
-advance and protect the profession

Privacy in work environment
e.g.: HIPAA -medical info
GPDR- control over personal info

Risk management terminology
Asset- something that needs protection
Vulnerability- gap or weakness
Threat- something/one aims to exploit vulnerability

Decision making based on risk priorities:
-Evaluate likelihood and impact (executive management and board)

Risk management
-evaluate how likely scenario happens
mitigate risks

Governance elements
Regulations & Laws-
e.g.: GPDR - EU
HIPAA- medical info US
IETF - Internet Engineering Task Force
ISO- International Organization for Standardization

Risk identification
-identify risks and communicate it clearly
-all employees are responsible for identifying risks
-identify risk and protect against it
-security professional might assist in risk assessment - system level
-focusing on process, control, monitoring, or incident response, and recovery activities

Each Org -needs to fulfill its goals
e.g.: manufacture products/ provide service
Needs:
-Decisions
-Rules and Practices
-Policies and procedures

Management is guided by laws and regulations
Standards - policies - procedures

Regulations and laws
-typically with financial penalties for no-compliance
-different levels (local, national, regional)
e.g. HIPAA, GPDR

Standards
-used by governance team in support of regulation
e.g. ISO - develops and publishes standards on variety of topics
NIST under Department of Commerce, for IT standards and infosec
IETF- communication protocols
IEEE- standards for telecom, companies, enginering, etc.

Policies
-put in place by executive management to ensure industry standards and regulations
-provides context and strategic direction
-direct behavior and activity
-whether by law or contracts
-need to comply

Procedures
-Detailed steps to complete a task
-Repeatable activities for tasks
